SUBMARINE-1088. Page of How to Release (#807)
apache/submarine: website/docs/devDocs/HowToRelease.md

---
title: How to Release
---

<!--
   Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
   contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
   this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
   The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
   (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
   the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
-->

> This article mainly introduces how the Release Manager releases a specific version of the project according to the Apache process.

## 0. Preface

> Source Release is the focus of Apache’s attention and it is also a required content for release. Binary Release is optional, InLong can choose whether to release the binary package to the Apache warehouse or to the Maven central warehouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source Release is the focus of Apache’s attention and it is also a required content for release. Binary Release is optional, Submarine can choose whether to release the binary package to the Apache warehouse or to the Maven central warehouse.
```
```suggestion
Source Release is the focus of Apache’s attention and it is also a required content for release. Binary Release is optional, InLong can choose whether to release the binary package to the Apache warehouse or to the Maven central warehouse.
```

Please refer to the following link to find more ASF release guidelines:

[Apache Release Guide](https://incubator.apache.org/guides/releasemanagement.html)

> [Apache incubator](https://incubator.apache.org/)

Reviewer: We can remote it.

public and secret key created and signed.

pub   rsa4096 2020-05-19 [SC]
      41936314E25F402D5F7D73152DD587E7B10F3B1F
uid                      Guangxu Cheng <gxcheng@apache.org>
sub   rsa4096 2020-05-19 [E]
```

### 1.3 Upload the generated key to the public server

```shell
➜  ~ gpg --list-keys
-------------------------------
pub   rsa4096 2020-05-18 [SC]
      5931F8CFD04B37A325E4465D8C0D31C4149B3A87
uid           [ultimate] Guangxu Cheng <gxcheng@apache.org>
sub   rsa4096 2020-05-18 [E]

# Send public key to keyserver via key id
$ gpg --keyserver pgpkeys.mit.edu --send-key <key id>
# Among them, pgpkeys.mit.edu is a randomly selected keyserver, and the keyserver list is: https://sks-keyservers.net/status/, which is automatically synchronized with each other, you can choose any one.
```

### 1.4 Check whether the key is created successfully

Through the following URL, use the email to check whether the upload is successful or not. It will take about a minute to find out. When searching, check the show full-key hashes under advance on http://keys.gnupg.net.

The query results are as follows:

### 1.5 Add your gpg public key to the KEYS file

> SVN is required for this step

> The svn library of the DEV branch is https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/inlong
> 
> The SVN library of the Release branch is https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/release/incubator/inlong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The svn library of the DEV branch is https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/submarine

The SVN library of the Release branch is https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/release/submarine
```
```suggestion
The svn library of the DEV branch is https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/inlong

The SVN library of the Release branch is https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/release/incubator/inlong
```
